hmmm you wake up and can't recognize
your room that's definitely it but your
desk is on the wall and the dresser is
on the ceiling it's closed but you can
somehow see every folded t-shirt in it
you wipe your eyes nothing changes
this isn't a dream welcome to the fourth
dimensional world wait rewind to
understand the fourth dimensional world
we need to look at the others so a zero
dimension world is just a point now if
you expand it you get a one dimensional
world that's a simple line it only has
one measure and that's length the
creatures living in this world can only
move in one direction either left or
right in general a dimension is a
direction in which an object can move so
now we'll add another line perpendicular
to the one we have we get a flat surface
with a length and width like a piece of
paper the flat creatures that live in a
2d world can move left and right and now
forward and backward to turn this flat
paper world into one we're more familiar
with we draw parallel lines from each
corner of the square now we get height
the third dimension the object of this
world have three measures length width
and height they can move in three
dimensions left and right back and forth
up and down that's the world we live in
but now we need to figure out where to
put the next perpendicular line to get a
fourth dimension is no easy task
because this fourth dimension as well as
the fifth and twelfth ones scientific
theories say could exist are hidden from
us because of the limitations of our
perception while we were going through
the first three dimensions we could see
that with every next dimension we expand
the possibilities the objects become
more complicated as inhabitants of a 3d
space we can easily imagine what 1d and
2d worlds are like because they're part
of our own but for residents of those
worlds it's not that easy to understand
ours because they're just not able to
perceive it
why imagine you're one of these 2d
Flatlanders and you're living your
simple flat life if a sphere a 3d object
somehow appears in your world the only
thing you'll be able to see is a dot
that appears out of nowhere and then
grows into a longer and longer line and
then shrinks back down into a dot before
disappearing a flatlander could combine
all these lines to get a circle or if he
could look at it from above he can't
that would involve hide it would just be
a dot growing into a larger and larger
circle and then getting smaller either
way our flatlander ends up looking at a
flat circle not a sphere that's exactly
what will happen to us if we try to
understand a 4d object we'll see it like
a 3d object appearing somehow changing
and then disappearing we wouldn't be
able to make sense out of it for example
let's take a 4d hyper sphere and put it
in our world here's what you'll see
looks like a regular old sphere
appearing growing shrinking and
disappearing good luck trying to combine
the spheres all together to make sense
out of its 4d shape okay
let's try it with something a little
easier remember 1d is a line 2d is then
a square and 3d adds more perpendicular
lines to get a cube to get a 4d cube
call that tesseract we connect to cubes
we know that every side of a 3d cube is
a square in a tesseract every side of it
is a cube this shape looks really
confusing especially if we realize that
it's a 3d projection of a 4d object on
your 2d screen just like the Flatlanders
we're unable to fully understand what a
higher dimensional world is line even
scientists have a vague and limited
perception about it they mostly describe
it in complex mathematical equations not
physical objects but think about it this
way technically every single day 4d or
even 10 D beings could enter our world
and we wouldn't even know it now if the
first second and third dimensions are
length left and right breadth back and
forth and height up and down
what does that make the fourth dimension
how about a real world example there are
2d ultrasounds that show a flat black
and white image mostly made up of
outlines then there's 3d it's basically
like a normal photograph you'd see in an
album things have a form depth shadows
then there's 4d ultrasound this is an
image that's constantly being updated
with time the fourth dimension
some call it trenc but it's basically
space-time in-and-out and always so you
wake up in your room in a 4d world the
planet is a hyper sphere everything
around you is as if you live in a sphere
your wardrobe is still up on the ceiling
and you need to get dressed
wait where are you going stay right
there I know you still think the
shortest way from A to B is a straight
line but you're in a 4d world now the
shortest way here is through so just
look through your wardrobe find your
favorite t-shirt and jeans and grab them
that's better
hey your roommate is making coffee let's
grab something to eat too you could just
teleport there but let's take the long
way no not the stairs through the walls
and floor doors and stairs will probably
be non-existent in a 4d world there's
your roommate don't be confused he's
okay Albert Einstein called the 4d
universe a spacetime world here the past
present and future all come together so
like every other object your friend
exists in every moment of his entire
life I know what you're wondering if you
can move through walls
can you move through people - yeah but
please don't reach into his head and
tickle his brain that's taboo in this
world even if it can be done
it shouldn't here's another cool thing
you can see people's emotions see the
yellowish shadow around him it means he
isn't in a very good mood but wait
mentally you don't need words here
they're too slow you can reach any
person mentally within a moment even if
they're on the other side of the planet
now let's grab your sandwich laptop some
work papers oh no you don't need this
bag forget it you have pockets right put
it all there you'll see it fits
perfectly there's endless space well and
no reason to take things with you when
you can instantly teleport forgot your
wallet one second now you have it okay
you're a little late already work starts
at 9:00 and your boss is gonna be
seething but don't worry remember you
exist in any time present past and
future even though it's nine twelve
already just get there by nine in fact
let's take a vacation day teleport to
Rome see all the sights as they were
through all of time in history Master
the Italian language where to next
when to next the choice is yours you can
always travel back and get to your job
like a punctual hard worker and still
life in a 4d world would probably be
something entirely different than even
my wild imagination can come up with so
I'll let you finish this story down
below